Project 1 Documentation
Wilson Rodden

This design was particularly difficult given my lack of experience in JavaScript and D3. As with any design process, 
I started by “doodling” what I would like the result to show. I would include a snapshot of the design, but it has been 
scribbled over with revisions.

With the initial design in hand, it was time to evaluate the structure of the data and overcome the first hurdle—drawing 
the map. Given what we had gone over in class I considered drawing individual lines from point to point, as we had yet 
to review paths in D3. I ended up running across a brief explanation of paths in a web article, then Professor Reda 
mentioned it would be the best path forward regarding the map. 

Originally the map streets were blue before I had decided on blue and orange as the color palette for gender mapping. 
This was changed to gray so it would be easy to distinguish the colors from the map background. 

Nothing special happened with the line chart since we were directly told what was expected for it. 

The distribution was more fun—creating a stacked bar chart demonstrating the distribution of genders among age groups overall. 
This enables the viewer to see that while there does not appear to be much of a difference between gender deaths 
(relatively evenly distributed across groups) there does appear to be a disproportionate impact on the young and elderly. 

One of my goals in creating the map with the link to the line graph was to have the mouseover effect work even after 
the gender and age filters were applied. This was relatively easy as I simply made sure that the functions for the 
two were completely separate and I would not have to reprogram the effects as long as my script was structured correctly.

The color schemes in general were chosen to be easy to distinguish from each other, given the focus on accessibility 
for this assignment. I hadn’t started this assignment with many assumptions as we had already reviewed this visualization 
in class. It made sense to me that older people would be more susceptible to the disease, however the children being hit 
hard was a slight surprise. It does make sense though as their bodies are weak and may not be able to fend off that level 
of toxicity.

Given more time on this assignment I would work towards restructuring my charts to fit in one page, include some street 
names, and work on the zoom with pan functions. There were a few roadblocks that took up more time than anticipated so I 
came up short on those points.
